.. toctree::
   Download_and_Setup_Troubleshutting

####################
 Download and setup
####################

*********************
 System Requirements
*********************

-  Windows 64-bit, or Linux 64-bit operating system

-  Plenty of free disk space in order to cope with the combined data files (> 30GB)

-  16GB RAM (at the very least). It should run on a machine with 4 or 8Gb memory,
   but this mode has not been tested for a long time and may be very inconvenient
   to process average experimental results.

-  Preferably a recent version of Matlab.
   Horace is not tested on releases of Matlab older than R2018b,
   although we make efforts for it to be compatible with the last 5 years of
   releases.
   If you are forced to use an earlier release and run into a problem,
   please open a ticket on
   `GitHub <https://github.com/pace-neutrons/Horace/issues>`__
   or contact <mailto:HoraceHelp@stfc.ac.uk>__ and we will try to help you.

**********
 Download
**********

Horace releases for Windows and Linux are available to download on
`GitHub <https://github.com/pace-neutrons/Horace/releases>`__.
These packages contain pre-compiled x64 Mex libraries for each OS.

Everything required to run Horace is within the package,
including `Herbert <https://github.com/pace-neutrons/Herbert>`__.

***************************
 Installation Instructions
***************************

To install Horace you should ideally have the administrative rights. To 
install Horace:

1. Extract the release archive to your preferred location.
2. Open Matlab and set that location as your working directory.
3. Run ``horace_install``. Under  Unix, where Matlab GUI would not always run with root privileges
   go to the package folder and run Matlab from command line: ``>>sudo matlab -nosplash -nodesktop -r horace_install``
4. Now you can call ``horace_on`` from anywhere to start using Horace.
5. Optional: Launch Matlab from your home folder or GUI and type ``>>edit startup.m``. 
   Add string `horace_on();` to enable Horace for each Matlab startup.
   to have Horace available each time you start your Matlab session.
6. If you do not have administrative access, the installation would still be possible,
   and will probably work as described. You may encounter problems with parallel extensions
   and not be able to initialize Horace from a folder different from "Userpath" folder.
   See :ref:`Troubleshooting <Download_and_Setup_Troubleshutting:Download and Setup Trouble-Shutting>` for the details 
   of the installation process in this situation.

**********************
 Horace Configuration
**********************

Horace uses configuration files to store its settings.
You can access these settings using the ``hor_config`` class.

.. code-block:: matlab

   >> hor_config

This will print the current Horace configuration.
Descriptions for each option are given below:

.. code-block:: matlab

   >> hc = hor_config()

   hc =

   hor_config with properties:

      % The buffer size for IO read/write processes (bytes)
      mem_chunk_size: 1000000
      % The maximum amount of memory to be used by pixel data in file-backed
      % algorithms (bytes)
      pixel_page_size: 1.7977e+308
      % The number of threads to use in Mex routines. This should not exceed
      % the number of physical cores on your machine.
      threads: 16
      % Ignore NaN data when making cuts (true or false)
      ignore_nan: 1
      % Ignore Inf data when making cuts (true or false)
      ignore_inf: 0
      % The verbosity of informational log messages:
      %  -1 - Display no logging
      %   0 - Display major logging information
      %   1 - Display minor and major logging information
      %   2 - Display all logging messages, including timing information
      log_level: -1
      % Make use of Mex libraries (true or false)
      use_mex: 1
      % Automatically delete temporary files generated by sqw generation (true or false)
      delete_tmp: 1
      % The directory to place temporary files during sqw generation
      working_directory: 'C:\temp'
      % Throw an error if a Mex library cannot be used (true or false) [debugging option]
      force_mex_if_use_mex: 1
      % Reference to Horace's high performance configuration
      high_perf_config_info: [1×1 hpc_config]

Use the usual Matlab syntax to set configuration values:

.. code-block:: matlab

   hc.(property_name) = value;

******************************************
 High Performance Computing Configuration
******************************************

If your have large machine with multiple several cores, fast hard drive and large memory, you may benefit from using Horace's
parallel computing options. The memory, necessary to make parallel extensions useful may be estimated as 32Gb per main session 
and 16 per each parallel worker as minimum, so if you want to use 4 parallel processes productively, your machine wound normally 
have 96Gb of RAM.

The ``hpc`` command can be used to enable/disable parallel computing options,
as well as provide suggested settings for the current system.

.. code-block:: matlab

   >> hpc;     % display the suggested configuration based on the current system
   >> hpc on   % enable parallel computing
   >> hpc off  % disable parallel computing


For finer grained control over things like: number of parallel workers,
use of Mex routines and which functions are performed in parallel,
use the ``hpc_config`` class.

.. code-block:: matlab

   >> help hpc_config
