# Release Notes v3.5.1

## What's New?


### Critical changes
 - `cut_sqw` , if integration applied in inf limits e.g. `target = cut_sqw(source,[],[],[-inf,inf],[-inf,inf])`, the integration limits of the `target` object (`iint(:,3) & iint(:,4)`) are set to actual data limits present within `source` object instead of previous  `[-inf,inf]` used before. This behaviour may be modified in a future.
 
 - `SPE` data file format is now obsolete and superseeded by more advanced binary `NXSPE` data file format. The data obtained from `.spe` files are now trunkated to 4 digits after decimal point. The truncation accuracy is currently controlled by constant `asciipar_loader.ASCII_PARAM_ACCURACY` for detector positions and `loader_ascii.ASCII_DATA_ACCURACY` for `spe` data  properties. The reason behind this decision comes from the fact that these data are often written with such precision, but are converted into double precision when read, and the difference between 4 digit presison and 16 digit precision is implemented differently on differenc operating systems or using different code (mex or Matlab). This causes binary difference between `sqw` files generated using different modes, as binning may become very sensitive to the data accurace, possibly converting ~10<sup>-15</sup> error into a bin size difference.  As the actual data accuracy do not exceed 3 significant digits, this change would not affect any physical results, produced by the code.
 The truncation parameters may be better implemented as a configurable property, specified in `herbert_config` configuration class.



## Enhancements

-

## Bugfixes

-
