# Release Notes v4.0.0

## Critical changes

- `cut_sqw`, if integration applied in inf limits
  e.g. `target = cut_sqw(source,[],[],[-inf,inf],[-inf,inf])`,
  the integration limits of the `target` object (`iint(:,3) & iint(:,4)`) are
  set to actual data limits present within `source` object instead of previous
  `[-inf,inf]` used before.
  This behaviour may be modified in a future release.

- `SPE` data file format is now obsolete and superseded by more advanced binary `NXSPE` data file format.
  The data obtained from `.spe` files are now truncated to 4 digits after decimal point.
  The truncation accuracy is currently controlled by constant
  `asciipar_loader.ASCII_PARAM_ACCURACY` for detector positions and
  `loader_ascii.ASCII_DATA_ACCURACY` for `spe` data  properties.
  The reason behind this decision comes from the fact that these data are often
  written with such precision,
  but are converted into double precision when read, and the difference between 4
  digit precision and 16 digit precision is implemented differently on different
  operating systems or using different code (mex or Matlab).
  This causes binary differences between `sqw` files generated using different modes,
  as binning may become very sensitive to the data accuracy,
  possibly converting ~10<sup>-15</sup> error into a bin size difference.
  As the actual data accuracy does not exceed 3 significant digits,
  this change would not affect any physical results produced by the code.
  The truncation parameters may be better implemented as a configurable property,
  specified in `herbert_config` configuration class.

- You can no longer pass an array of `sqw` objects or cell array of `sqw`
  objects to `cut_sqw`.
  This removes ambiguity over the return type of the function,
  which could be an array of sqw objects, or, if multiple integration ranges
  are specified, a cell array of arrays of `sqw` objects
  (see [relevant git commit](https://github.com/pace-neutrons/Horace/commit/cdc4141b43e5d063e2edb5f36203cb6a930a4119)).
  It also removes the problem of only being able to specify one path as the
  `outfile` argument.
  If an array of `sqw` objects or `sqw` file names was passed to `cut_sqw` and
  the `outfile` argument was given, each cut would overwrite the file at `outfile`.
  A loop must now be used to perform multiple cuts.

 - Data serialisation has been rewritten and now includes a MEX variant for improving performance and capabilities of MPI comms and object saving.    

## Bugfixes
