## Release Notes v4.1.1

# Highlights

 - #896 a-c Updated mex code and enable it for binning pixels. Horace-3 was using mex code for 
    binning pixels in some algorithms. Horace-4 have substantially refactored these algorithms 
    and disabled mex code. As the results, the algorithms (e.g. cut) which were completely IO boundaries
    in Horace-3,take 60% of its time in MATLAB calculations in Horace-4. This contribution partially 
    sorts this issue, updates and modifies `bin_pixels` code to run in all cases where MATLAB code
    is used and makes majority of Horace algorithms which use `bin_pixels` algorithms IO-speed
    constrained again.

## Bugs fixed and code improvements:

 - #1912 Bug where Tobyfit does not accept multiple `sqw` objects as input i.e. call to Tobyfit in the form:
   `tobyfit(sqw1,sqw2,...)` have been fixed.
 - #1904 Fixed incorrect treatment of [-inf,inf] cut limits when corresponding direction 
    in the original file is described by projection axis. Resulting cut ranges were
    incorrectly reduced by half of original binning step in each direction.
 - #1848 `symmetrize_sqw` now can work with rotational symmetry operations.
    To achieve that, algorithm which calculates transformation ranges when 
    `sqw` transformation during `sqw` generation is provided was modified. In addition to that, 
    the algorithm to generate `sqw` objects when transformation is present 
    has to be modified too. This fixed bugs and improve the efficiency of this
    algorithm eliminating expensive unnecessary binning within intermediate boundaries.
    The resulting routine works faster and does not cuts-off unnecessary pixels.

   The details of the fixed issues are available on
   [GitHub](https://github.com/pace-neutrons/Horace/issues/)
