## Release Notes v4.1.0

# Highlights

 - #1817 Horace have reach set of operations to work with sqw objects. `Plus`, `minus`, `sqw_eval`, `replicate`,
   etc allow one to calculate various mathematical models on the basis of `sqw `objects and analyse them extracting,
   adding and mixing models with each other and comparing them with the results obtained in experiment.
   
   Recently these operations have been extended to filebased `sqw` objects which enables user to work with filebased
   objects exactly like with the objects in memory. The only issue with such filebacked objects is that an operation
   over whole sqw objects takes say, about 5-10 minutes and if you do 3 operations (e.g. model background (sqw_eval),
   extract model from sqw object, (minus) and mask negative values (mask) it will take 30 minutes to do them all.
   
   This ticket partially solves this issue introducing `sqw_op` algorithm which allows user to write custom
   operation combining multiple operations performed over filebacked pixels into a single operation. 
   Algorithm would perform multiple operations, which performance is defined by the speed of IO access,
   in one go achieving correspondent acceleration.
   
 - #1854 In addition to `sqw_op` algorithm, which allows changing pixel's signal and error only, this ticket adds
   `sqw_op_bin_pixels` algorithm which allows user to write function changing any pixel data. The example
   of such function may be a function which extracts model background and moves all data recorded in a multiple
   Brillouin zones into a single one.
   
   By format, this algorithm accepts mixture of `sqw_op` parameters (user function and its input parameters) and
   `cut` options  (projection, describing target coordinate system and binning parameters).
   
   Unlike `cut` algorithm which works with pixels selection defined by a projection, `sqw_op_bin_pixels`
   algorithm works over all pixels present in sqw object. This allows user to write simpler user function
   but is much slower in comparison with `cut` algorithm.
   
 - #1867 this ticket adds "-combine" option to `sqw_op_bin_pixels` algorithm, which allows to use the same pixels
   transformation as in `sqw_op_bin_pixels` applying it to multiple input cuts transforming their data into
   target coordinate system and combining the results of transformation together. The option allows to overcome
   inefficiency of `sqw_op_bin_pixel` algorithm by preparing cuts of interest which are connected by pixels transformation
   first and dropping all unrelated data from these cuts. Running transformation and combining cuts together then 
   become simple and efficient operation. 
   
   In many way, #1867 provides user with option, similar to the one provided by cut with `symop`, which allows
   user to combine together multiple symmetry related cuts. The advantage of #1867 is that user may deploy much 
   wider set of custom transformations than defined by `symop`. The disadvantage -- user needs deep understanding 
   of the problem and have to do a bit more programming by himself comparing with transformations predefined by `symop`.
   

 - #1776,#1846 Added `instrument_view_cut` algorithm, which allows to make a cut in the spectrometer frame. 
   This cut ignores crystal orientation and can be used in diagnostics providing user with reach information
   about various issues related to spectrometer or problems with consistency of data stored in old `sqw` files.

## Bugs fixed and code improvements:


 - #1787,#1895 The graphics algorithms have been refactored to make them more robust, fixing a number of bugs,
   simplifying   the chain of nested calls to graphics management functions of the 'genie_figure' type, 
   making full consistency of sliceomatic across IX_dataset_*d, d*d and sqw. The structure remains very similar. Included are a comprehensive set of tests.

   Regarding documentation, an ADD has been created (12_Horace_graphics.md) that explains how the graphics
   management and uniform interface operates (the latter was briefly described already in 07-sqw_redesign,
   and the same inheritance diagram is repeated). In addition, a folder has been created /examples/ that contains a script example_plotting.m that demonstrates some very basic plotting (calling a function data_for_plotting.m in the same folder that returns some instances of IX_dataset_*d, d*d and sqw objects).

 - #1862 A method to extract Magnetic Form factor calculation functions from `MagneticIons` class
   is modified to make it more convenient for operating with new `sqw_op` & `sqw_op_bin_pixels` algorithms.

 - #1152 fixed issue with extra pixels contributing to cut from matrix multiplication and not
   present in the indices, adapted to multiple instruments and enabled algorithm, which allows
   pixels coordinates recalculations from pixel indices, stored in PixelData indices
   fields. This algorithm can be used for calculating resolution convolution on symmetrized
   files and as part of algorithms which compress pixel data for writing then on disk.

 - #1830 Fixed issue with reading Horace-3 sqw files, when data obtained from experiments
   with beam aligned along [0,1,0] directions failed to be loaded in Horace-4.
 
   The details of the fixed issues are available on
   [GitHub](https://github.com/pace-neutrons/Horace/issues/)
