documentation/smg/07_Windows_Anvil_Node.md, before:

# Windows Anvil Node

Currently this node is ndw1676 windows node located in R3 office UG14.
Some subnets in ISIS may not propagate hosts names so current address this node within 
local network is 130.246.49.165.
The node is available on [Anvil](https://anvil.softeng-support.ac.uk/) as **PACE Windows (Private)**


Local Jenkins account there is enabled for non-admin user Jenkins.
The RDC login to the machine as this user is enabled 
and user should login as ndw1676\Jenkins providing the agreed local password. 

Number of Matlab versions there is installed in c:\programming\Matlab[Year][Arch] 
(i.e. c:\programming\Matlab2019b64 or c:\programming\Matlab2015a32) 
and uses ISIS floating licenses. If other Matlab versions are necessary, they should be 
installed alongside (needs administrative rights to do that)

The process of installing Horace for testing is described on [Horace Download and Setup for non-default installation](http://horace.isis.rl.ac.uk/Download_and_setup#Installation_with_Horace_not_initialized_by_default_on_starting_Matlab)
page. It should be modified according to Anvil job requests.

The Anvil Java client together with bat file to run it currently located in c:\Users\Jenkins\Downloads 
folder. 
The Anvil Jenkins client, used by this batch file can be downloaded from [Here](https://anvil.softeng-support.ac.uk/jenkins/jnlpJars/agent.jar)
To connect the machine to Anvil, one should run this agent using the command:
java -jar agent.jar -jnlpUrl https://anvil.softeng-support.ac.uk/jenkins/computer/PACE%20Windows%20(Private)/slave-agent.jnlp -secret 23cbed0dd0d5a1835d64423d8ce1354752e468ea9858bcb8da552b2b4cc7c2b3 -workDir "."
which us done in the above mentioned file. 


The batch file supposed to be run in scheduler or as a service as soon as the Horace Build job setup is completed/

Commit message:

Re #1 Minor changes related to Windows Anvil node (it is running in a scheduler now)
Former-commit-id: 0529e86dee7ff06e33df2006582b72c24caaeb29

documentation/smg/07_Windows_Anvil_Node.md, after:

# Windows Anvil Node

Currently this node is ndw1676 windows node located in R3 office UG14.
Some subnets in ISIS may not propagate hosts names so current address this node within 
local network is 130.246.49.165.
The node is available on [Anvil](https://anvil.softeng-support.ac.uk/) as **PACE Windows (Private)**


Local Jenkins account there is enabled for non-admin user Jenkins.
The RDC login to the machine as this user is enabled 
and user should login as ndw1676\Jenkins providing the agreed local password. 

Number of Matlab versions there is installed in c:\programming\Matlab[Year][Arch] 
(i.e. c:\programming\Matlab2019b64 or c:\programming\Matlab2015a32) 
and uses ISIS floating licenses. If other Matlab versions are necessary, they should be 
installed alongside (needs administrative rights to do that)

The process of installing Horace for testing is described on [Horace Download and Setup for non-default installation](http://horace.isis.rl.ac.uk/Download_and_setup#Installation_with_Horace_not_initialized_by_default_on_starting_Matlab)
page. It should be modified according to Anvil job requests.

The Anvil Java client together with bat file to run it currently located in c:\Users\Jenkins\Downloads 
folder. 
The Anvil Jenkins client, used by this batch file can be downloaded from [Here](https://anvil.softeng-support.ac.uk/jenkins/jnlpJars/agent.jar)
To connect the machine to Anvil, one should run this agent using the command:
java -jar agent.jar -jnlpUrl https://anvil.softeng-support.ac.uk/jenkins/computer/PACE%20Windows%20(Private)/slave-agent.jnlp -secret 23cbed0dd0d5a1835d64423d8ce1354752e468ea9858bcb8da552b2b4cc7c2b3 -workDir "."
which us done in the above mentioned file. 


The batch file currently is running in the scheduler so is started as soon as the windows machine is up. 
It tries to restart the job every file minutes in case job script crashes.
